the first book of Samuel now there was a
the first book of Samuel now there was a certain man of Rama thiam's oaf him of
certain man of Rama thiam's oaf him of
certain man of Rama thiam's oaf him of the mountains of Ephraim and his name
the mountains of Ephraim and his name
the mountains of Ephraim and his name was Elkanah the son of Jerome the son of
was Elkanah the son of Jerome the son of
was Elkanah the son of Jerome the son of Allah Hugh the son of - Hugh the son of
Allah Hugh the son of - Hugh the son of
Allah Hugh the son of - Hugh the son of zeus and ephraim aight and he had two
zeus and ephraim aight and he had two
zeus and ephraim aight and he had two wives the name of one was hannah and the
wives the name of one was hannah and the
wives the name of one was hannah and the name of the other pnina pnina had
name of the other pnina pnina had
name of the other pnina pnina had children but hannah had no children this
children but hannah had no children this
children but hannah had no children this man went up from his city yearly to
man went up from his city yearly to
man went up from his city yearly to worship and sacrifice to the Lord of
worship and sacrifice to the Lord of
worship and sacrifice to the Lord of hosts in Shiloh also the two sons of Eli
hosts in Shiloh also the two sons of Eli
hosts in Shiloh also the two sons of Eli hophni and Phinehas the priests of the
hophni and Phinehas the priests of the
hophni and Phinehas the priests of the Lord were there and whenever the time
Lord were there and whenever the time
Lord were there and whenever the time came for Elkanah to make an offering he
came for Elkanah to make an offering he
came for Elkanah to make an offering he would give portions to pnina his wife
would give portions to pnina his wife
would give portions to pnina his wife and to all her sons and daughters but to
and to all her sons and daughters but to
and to all her sons and daughters but to Hanna he would give a double portion for
Hanna he would give a double portion for
Hanna he would give a double portion for he loved Hannah although the Lord had
he loved Hannah although the Lord had
he loved Hannah although the Lord had closed her womb and her rival also
closed her womb and her rival also
closed her womb and her rival also provoked her severely to make her
provoked her severely to make her
provoked her severely to make her miserable because the Lord had closed
miserable because the Lord had closed
miserable because the Lord had closed her womb so it was year by year when she
her womb so it was year by year when she
her womb so it was year by year when she went up to the house of the Lord that
went up to the house of the Lord that
went up to the house of the Lord that she provoked her therefore she wept he
she provoked her therefore she wept he
she provoked her therefore she wept he did not eat them Elkanah her husband
did not eat them Elkanah her husband
did not eat them Elkanah her husband said to her Hannah why do you weep I do
said to her Hannah why do you weep I do
said to her Hannah why do you weep I do not eat and why is your heart grieved am
not eat and why is your heart grieved am
not eat and why is your heart grieved am I not better to you than ten sons so
I not better to you than ten sons so
I not better to you than ten sons so Hannah
Hannah
Hannah arose after they had finished eating and
arose after they had finished eating and
arose after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh
drinking in Shiloh
drinking in Shiloh now Eli the priest was sitting on the
now Eli the priest was sitting on the
now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle
seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle
seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord and she was in bitterness of
of the Lord and she was in bitterness of
of the Lord and she was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in
soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in
soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish then she made a vow O Lord of
anguish then she made a vow O Lord of
anguish then she made a vow O Lord of Hosts if you will indeed look on the
Hosts if you will indeed look on the
Hosts if you will indeed look on the affliction of your maidservant and
affliction of your maidservant and
affliction of your maidservant and remember me and not forget your
remember me and not forget your
remember me and not forget your maidservant but will give your
maidservant but will give your
maidservant but will give your maidservant a male child then I will
maidservant a male child then I will
maidservant a male child then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his
give him to the Lord all the days of his
give him to the Lord all the days of his life and no razor shall come upon his
life and no razor shall come upon his
life and no razor shall come upon his head and it happened as she continued
head and it happened as she continued
head and it happened as she continued praying before the Lord that Eli washed
praying before the Lord that Eli washed
praying before the Lord that Eli washed her mouth
her mouth
her mouth now Hannah spoke in our heart only her
now Hannah spoke in our heart only her
now Hannah spoke in our heart only her lips moved but her voice was not heard
lips moved but her voice was not heard
lips moved but her voice was not heard therefore Eli thought she was drunk how
therefore Eli thought she was drunk how
therefore Eli thought she was drunk how long will you be drunk
long will you be drunk
long will you be drunk put your wine away from you no my lord I
put your wine away from you no my lord I
put your wine away from you no my lord I am a woman of sorrowful spirit
am a woman of sorrowful spirit
am a woman of sorrowful spirit I have drunk neither wine nor
I have drunk neither wine nor
I have drunk neither wine nor intoxicating drink but have poured out
intoxicating drink but have poured out
intoxicating drink but have poured out my soul before the Lord do not consider
my soul before the Lord do not consider
my soul before the Lord do not consider your maidservant a wicked woman for out
your maidservant a wicked woman for out
your maidservant a wicked woman for out of the abundance of my complaint and
of the abundance of my complaint and
of the abundance of my complaint and grief I have spoken until now go in
grief I have spoken until now go in
grief I have spoken until now go in peace and the God of Israel grant your
peace and the God of Israel grant your
peace and the God of Israel grant your petition which you have asked of him
petition which you have asked of him
petition which you have asked of him let your maidservant find favor in your
let your maidservant find favor in your
let your maidservant find favor in your sight so the woman went her way and ate
sight so the woman went her way and ate
sight so the woman went her way and ate and her face was no longer sad then they
and her face was no longer sad then they
and her face was no longer sad then they rose early in the morning and worshiped
rose early in the morning and worshiped
rose early in the morning and worshiped before the Lord and returned and came to
before the Lord and returned and came to
before the Lord and returned and came to their house a tremor and elkanah knew
their house a tremor and elkanah knew
their house a tremor and elkanah knew hannah his wife and the Lord remembered
hannah his wife and the Lord remembered
hannah his wife and the Lord remembered her so it came to pass in the process of
her so it came to pass in the process of
her so it came to pass in the process of time that Hannah conceived and bore a
time that Hannah conceived and bore a
time that Hannah conceived and bore a son and called his name Samuel because I
son and called his name Samuel because I
son and called his name Samuel because I have asked for him from the Lord now the
have asked for him from the Lord now the
have asked for him from the Lord now the man Elkanah and all his house went up to
man Elkanah and all his house went up to
man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice
offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice
offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his vow but Hannah did not go up for
and his vow but Hannah did not go up for
and his vow but Hannah did not go up for she said to her husband not until the
she said to her husband not until the
she said to her husband not until the child is weaned then I will take him
child is weaned then I will take him
child is weaned then I will take him that he may appear before the Lord and
that he may appear before the Lord and
that he may appear before the Lord and remain there forever so Elkanah her
remain there forever so Elkanah her
remain there forever so Elkanah her husband said to her - what seems best to
husband said to her - what seems best to
husband said to her - what seems best to you wait until you have weaned him only
you wait until you have weaned him only
you wait until you have weaned him only let the Lord establish his word then the
let the Lord establish his word then the
let the Lord establish his word then the woman stayed and nursed her son until
woman stayed and nursed her son until
woman stayed and nursed her son until she had weaned him
she had weaned him
she had weaned him now when she had weaned him she took him
now when she had weaned him she took him
now when she had weaned him she took him up with her with three bulls one Aoife
up with her with three bulls one Aoife
up with her with three bulls one Aoife of flour and a skin of wine
of flour and a skin of wine
of flour and a skin of wine and brought him to the house of the Lord
and brought him to the house of the Lord
and brought him to the house of the Lord in Shiloh and the child was young then
in Shiloh and the child was young then
in Shiloh and the child was young then they slaughtered a bull and brought the
they slaughtered a bull and brought the
they slaughtered a bull and brought the child to Eli
oh my lord as your soul lives my lord I
oh my lord as your soul lives my lord I am the woman who stood by you here
am the woman who stood by you here
am the woman who stood by you here praying to the Lord for this child I
praying to the Lord for this child I
praying to the Lord for this child I prayed and the Lord has granted me my
prayed and the Lord has granted me my
prayed and the Lord has granted me my petition which I asked of him therefore
petition which I asked of him therefore
petition which I asked of him therefore I also have lent him to the Lord as long
I also have lent him to the Lord as long
I also have lent him to the Lord as long as he lives
as he lives
as he lives he shall be lent to the Lord so they
he shall be lent to the Lord so they
he shall be lent to the Lord so they worshiped the Lord there
you
you [Music]